In this section,
we're going to write integration tests for the inventory service.
The inventory service makes API calls to a third-party API,
so in order to test it,
we're going to use MockMvc to send requests to the inventory
service and leverage WireMock to stub the responses from the
third-party API with a known set of data.
We'll override the inventory service's inventory
manager.baseUrl property to point to WireMock,
and then we'll define mapping files and JSON payloads to control
the responses that are returned for each request.
From a coding perspective,
we're going to include the ExtendWith annotation with the SpringExtension class,
as well as the SpringBootTest annotation to load our
full Spring application context.
We include the testPropertySource annotation,
specifying our test.properties file,
which overrides the baseUrl to which the inventory service will
execute its RESTful API calls to point to WireMock.
Finally,
we add the AutoConfigureMockMvc annotation to tell
Spring to create a MockMvc instance.
Inside our test class, we'll define a WireMock server variable,
create and start the WireMock server in the BeforeEach method,
and stop it in the AfterEach method.
Let's review the source code for the
InventoryServiceIntegrationTest class and see how it works.
As I just described,
the InventoryServiceIntegrationTest is annotated with the ExtendWith
annotation with the SpringExtension class and the SpringBootTest annotation
so that Spring will load the full application context.
It includes the TestPropertySource annotation with the test.properties file
to override the inventory service's baseUrl property,
and it includes the AutoConfigureMockMvc annotation so that
Spring will create a MockMvc instance.
We have a MockMvc instance autowired into the class,
and we define a WireMockServer variable.
The BeforeEach method creates an instance of the WireMockServer and starts it,
and the AfterEach method stops it.
When the WireMock server starts,
it will discover the mappings directory and configure our three mapping files.
The first mapping file handles a GET request to /inventory/1 and
returns a 200 OK HTTP response code and the payload loaded from
the inventory- response.json file.
The inventory- response.json file contains an inventory record for
product 1 with an available quantity of 500,
a productName of Super Great Product, and a productCategory of Great Products.
The second mapping file handles a get request to /inventory/2,
and returns 404 Not Found.
The final mapping file handles a POST request to /inventory/1/purchaseRecord,
returns a 200 OK HTTP response code,
and the contents of the inventory-response-after- post.json file.
This JSON file is the same as the previous JSON file,
but its available quantity has been reduced to 495.
With this setup complete, we can start looking at our test methods.
The first test method is testGetInventoryByIdSuccess,
which tests the successful retrieval of an inventory record.
It uses MockMvc to perform a get request to /inventory/1,
which we just saw will be returned to the inventory service by WireMock,
so we expect a 200 OK HTTP response code and a JSON content type.
We validate that the location header is set to /inventory/1,
and then we compare the JSON response field to those in
our inventory- response.json file.
The next test method is testGetInventoryByIdNotFound,
which tests a request for an inventory record that's
not known by the third-party API.
We use MockMvc to perform a GET request to /inventory/99,
and then verify that we receive a 404 Not Found HTTP response code.
The final test method is testCreatePurchaseRecord,
which posts a new purchase record to the inventory service to
decrement the inventory quantity for a product,
as the result of an online purchase.
It uses MockMvc to perform a POST request to /inventory/purchaseRecord,
passing it the JSON representation of a new purchase record for productid 1,
with a quantity purchased of 5, and a contentType of APPLICATION_JSON.
It then validates that we receive a 200 OK HTTP response code,
a JSON contentType,
and a LOCATION header referencing the correct inventory record,
namely, /inventory/1.
Finally,
we compare the fields in the JSON response body to those in the
inventory-response-after- post.json file,
which now has a quantity of 495 to account for the 5 that were just purchased.
Again, this integration test looks similar to its controller test counterpart,
but a request is passing through the entire technology stack,
from the inventory controller to the inventory service, and then to a mocked version of our third-party API.